
This is a collection of work-in-progress FreeBSD ports.

To install ports from this collection:

1)  pkg install auto-admin

2)  auto-ports-wip-checkout

3)  Now you can install any port using

	wip-reinstall-port portname
    
    or
    
	cd /usr/ports/wip/portname
	make install

    If you are a ports developer and have a poudriere installation, you can
    test the port by running

	wip-poudriere-test category/portname jail [jail ...] | all | pattern

4)  Add the following to /etc/make.conf to enable QA checks:

	DEVELOPER=yes

5)  Run wip-update frequently to retreive the latest commits.

6)  To automatically update wip ports via auto-update-system:

    auto-mark-install-from-source wip/portname wip

---

Note that there are committed, quality-controlled versions of many of these
ports available.  If you want the latest stable version, use the usual
FreeBSD ports installation methods:

    pkg install package-name

or

    cd /usr/ports/category/port && make deinstall clean install

If you would like to contribute to the collection:

o   Contact the owner of the repository and ask to be added as a Github
    collaborator, so you can commit changes made to your local working
    copy.

    Collaborators need to follow one simple rule:

	Do not modify someone else's files without their consent.

    Ports in this collection are works-in-progress and may be in any stage
    of development from completely non-functional to ready-to-commit.

    All ports must have a valid MAINTAINER email.

    Ports here may not have undergone security review and are provided as-is.
    However, ports found to cause security issues by merely being installed
    will be removed from the collection.

    You can use either git or subversion to manage your working copy.

    Note: Github does not support subversion "mv" or "cp" commands.
	  Use "cp -R", "svn add", and "svn rm" instead.

o   Adopt an existing port:

    If there is an existing port that you are interested it, PLEASE PLEASE
    PLEASE inquire about adopting it by contacting the maintainer (see the
    port Makefile for contact info).  There are many ports here and they will
    move beyond WIP faster if more people sign up as maintainers.

o   Commit messages should use the following format if possible:

    portname: Brief description of change

e.g.

    bamtools: Update to 2.5.1, static only

This makes it easier to scan the commit history at a glance.
